README.md, before:

# Trillian examples

[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/google/trillian-examples.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/google/trillian-examples/alerts/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/trillian?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/trillian-examples)
[![Slack Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Chat-blue.svg)](https://gtrillian.slack.com/)


This repository contains example applications built on top of
[Trillian][], showing that it's possible to apply
transparency concepts to problems other than
[certificates](https://github.com/google/certificate-transparency-go).  It also
contains general-purpose components that can be used to strengthen the
guarantees of a transparent ecosystem that already contains verifiable logs.

Currently the examples here are:

* [binary_transparency/firmware](binary_transparency/firmware): A demo
   showing how to apply transparency bring discoverability to device firmware
   updates, but the principles are also more generally applicable to all kinds
   of binaries/updates.
* [helloworld](helloworld): A simple example demonstrating the correct
   configuration of a Trillian log, personality, and client.
* [sumdbaudit](sumdbaudit): Demonstration of an auditor for the
   [GoLang SumDB](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/master/design/25530-sumdb.md)
   module proxy, which clones a log and verifies the data in it.

The general-purpose components are:

* [serverless](serverless): A suite of command-line tools for managing
   transparency logs whose state is entirely composed of on-disk files, along
   with examples of how to use GitHub/GitHub Actions to host & publicly serve
   the log.
* [witness](witness): A witness, which verifies the consistency of the evolving
  checkpoints issued by a verifiable log and produces co-signed checkpoints.
  This is an important role that enables the prevention or detection of certain
  types of log misbehavior (and in particular split-view attacks).

These examples and components are not supported per-se, but the Trillian team 
will likely try to help where possible.  You can contact them via the channels 
listed under *Support* on the [Trillian][] repo.

[Trillian]: https://github.com/google/trillian

Commit message:

Made the monolith easier to discover, and better documented
The monolith should be the default witness that most people should find themselves at; it is simple to deploy and follows all known logs. The other configurations (dockerized, bare witness) are still useful, but only to advanced users that know they don't want the monolith.

README.md, after:

# Trillian examples

[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/google/trillian-examples.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/google/trillian-examples/alerts/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/trillian?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/trillian-examples)
[![Slack Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Chat-blue.svg)](https://gtrillian.slack.com/)


This repository contains example applications built on top of
[Trillian][], showing that it's possible to apply
transparency concepts to problems other than
[certificates](https://github.com/google/certificate-transparency-go).  It also
contains general-purpose components that can be used to strengthen the
guarantees of a transparent ecosystem that already contains verifiable logs.

Currently the examples here are:

* [binary_transparency/firmware](binary_transparency/firmware): A demo
   showing how to apply transparency bring discoverability to device firmware
   updates, but the principles are also more generally applicable to all kinds
   of binaries/updates.
* [helloworld](helloworld): A simple example demonstrating the correct
   configuration of a Trillian log, personality, and client.
* [sumdbaudit](sumdbaudit): Demonstration of an auditor for the
   [GoLang SumDB](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/master/design/25530-sumdb.md)
   module proxy, which clones a log and verifies the data in it.

The general-purpose components are:

* [serverless](serverless): A suite of command-line tools for managing
   transparency logs whose state is entirely composed of on-disk files, along
   with examples of how to use GitHub/GitHub Actions to host & publicly serve
   the log.
* [witness](witness): A witness, which verifies the consistency of the evolving
  checkpoints issued by a verifiable log and produces co-signed checkpoints.
  This is an important role that enables the prevention or detection of certain
  types of log misbehavior (and in particular split-view attacks).
    * [monolith](witness/golang/omniwitness/monolith) is the entry point for
      users looking to deploy a preconfigured witness that witnesses all known
      logs.

These examples and components are not supported per-se, but the Trillian team 
will likely try to help where possible.  You can contact them via the channels 
listed under *Support* on the [Trillian][] repo.

[Trillian]: https://github.com/google/trillian
