formats/log/README.md, before:

# Checkpoint and proof format

This directory contains a description and supporting golang code for
a reusable Checkpoint and proof format which the TrustFabric team
uses in various projects.

The format itself is heavily based on the
[golang sumbdb head](https://sum.golang.org/latest), and corresponding
[signed note](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/mod/sumdb/note) formats.

## Checkpoint format

This consists of two formats: a signed envelope, and a body.

### Signed envelope

The envelope (signed note) is of the form:

* One or more non-empty lines, each terminated by `\n` (the `body`)
* One line consisting of just one `\n` (i.e. a blank line)
* One or more `signature` lines, each terminated by `\n`

All signatures commit to the body only (including its trailing newline, but not
the blank line's newline - see below for an example).

The signature(s) themselves are in the sumdb note format (concrete example
below):

`– <identity> <key_hint+signature_bytes>`
where:

* `–` is an emdash (U+2014)
* `<identity>` gives a human-readable representation of the signing ID

and the `signature_bytes` are prefixed with the first 4 bytes of the SHA256 hash
of the associated public key to act as a hint in identifying the correct key to
verify with.

**Differences from sumdb note:**
Whereas the golang signed note *implementation* currently supports only Ed25519
signatures, the format itself is not restricted to this scheme.

### Checkpoint body

The checkpoint body is of the form:

```text
<Ecosystem & version string>
<Decimal log size>
<Base64 log root hash>
[otherdata]
```

The first 3 lines of the body **MUST** be present in all Checkpoints.
`otherdata` is opaque and optional, and, if necessary, can be used to tie extra
data to the checkpoint, however its format must conform to the sumdb signed
note spec (e.g. it must not contain blank lines.)

> Note that golang sumdb implementation is already compatible with this
`[otherdata]` extension (see
<https://github.com/golang/mod/blob/d6ab96f2441f9631f81862375ef66782fc4a9c12/sumdb/tlog/note.go#L52>).

The first signature on a checkpoint must be from the log which issued it.

**Differences from sumdb root:**
The sumbdb note has `go.sum database tree` as its ecosystem string.

## Example

An annotated example signed checkpoint in this format is shown below:

![format](images/format.png)


The log size is 4027504, in the `other data` section a timestamp is encoded as a 64bit hex value, and further application-specific data relating to the phase of the moon at the point the checkpoint was issued is supplied following that.

## Log proof format

The individual proof hashes are base64 encoded and written one per line (terminating with `\n`).
The interpretation and ordering of these hashes MUST be defined by the ecosystem identified by the ecosystem string in the checkpoints the proof is presented with.

E.g.:

```text
Xa/RR4kVQaZZiL5oa3epz0H4dgtdELmfCd3bpTyZVnA=
Ttyc3PF7pqtMA2pnZdyr0QC9zeIz6h/U5TPI6r692rk=
sX6VR8ws2ZrACLQsdOb/zHA1rLYNSmtXi6RdkwH0Ud0=
```

Example proof interpretations are:

* RFC6962 style proofs, with the first line containing the proof node closest to the leaves, and the final line containing the proof node closest to the root.
* CompactRange proofs, with the first line containing the left-most subtree hash.

Commit message:

[Formats] Rename Ecosystem checkpoint field to Origin (#470)

formats/log/README.md, after:

# Checkpoint and proof format

This directory contains a description and supporting golang code for
a reusable Checkpoint and proof format which the TrustFabric team
uses in various projects.

The format itself is heavily based on the
[golang sumbdb head](https://sum.golang.org/latest), and corresponding
[signed note](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/mod/sumdb/note) formats.

## Checkpoint format

This consists of two formats: a signed envelope, and a body.

### Signed envelope

The envelope (signed note) is of the form:

* One or more non-empty lines, each terminated by `\n` (the `body`)
* One line consisting of just one `\n` (i.e. a blank line)
* One or more `signature` lines, each terminated by `\n`

All signatures commit to the body only (including its trailing newline, but not
the blank line's newline - see below for an example).

The signature(s) themselves are in the sumdb note format (concrete example
below):

`– <identity> <key_hint+signature_bytes>`
where:

* `–` is an emdash (U+2014)
* `<identity>` gives a human-readable representation of the signing ID

and the `signature_bytes` are prefixed with the first 4 bytes of the SHA256 hash
of the associated public key to act as a hint in identifying the correct key to
verify with.

**Differences from sumdb note:**
Whereas the golang signed note *implementation* currently supports only Ed25519
signatures, the format itself is not restricted to this scheme.

### Checkpoint body

The checkpoint body is of the form:

```text
<Origin string>
<Decimal log size>
<Base64 log root hash>
[otherdata]
```

The first 3 lines of the body **MUST** be present in all Checkpoints.

* `<Origin string>` should be a unique identifier for the log identity which issued the checkpoint.
  The exact format of this is left undefined, but examples of types of value to put here
  are the log's URL, a base64 encoded hash of its public key, etc.

  The presence of this identifier forms part of the log claim, and guards against two
  logs producing bytewise identical checkpoints.

* `<Decimal log size>` is the ASCII decimal representation of the number of leaves committed
  to by this checkpoint. It should not have leading zeroes.

* `<Base64 log root hash>` is an
  [RFC4684 standard encoding](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648#section-4) base-64
  representation of the log root hash at the specified log size.

* `[otherdata]` is opaque and optional, and, if necessary, can be used to tie extra
  data to the checkpoint, however its format must conform to the sumdb signed
  note spec (e.g. it must not contain blank lines.)

> Note that golang sumdb implementation is already compatible with this
`[otherdata]` extension (see
<https://github.com/golang/mod/blob/d6ab96f2441f9631f81862375ef66782fc4a9c12/sumdb/tlog/note.go#L52>).

The first signature on a checkpoint should be from the log which issued it, but there MUST NOT
be more than one signature from a log identity present on the checkpoint.

## Example

An annotated example signed checkpoint in this format is shown below:

![format](images/format.png)


This checkpoint was issued by the log known as "Moon Log", the log's size is
4027504, in the `other data` section a timestamp is encoded as a 64bit hex
value, and further application-specific data relating to the phase of the moon
at the point the checkpoint was issued is supplied following that.

## Log proof format

The individual proof hashes are base64 encoded and written one per line (terminating with `\n`).
The interpretation and ordering of these hashes MUST be defined by the ecosystem the origin log is a member of.

E.g.:

```text
Xa/RR4kVQaZZiL5oa3epz0H4dgtdELmfCd3bpTyZVnA=
Ttyc3PF7pqtMA2pnZdyr0QC9zeIz6h/U5TPI6r692rk=
sX6VR8ws2ZrACLQsdOb/zHA1rLYNSmtXi6RdkwH0Ud0=
```

Example proof interpretations are:

* RFC6962 style proofs, with the first line containing the proof node closest to the leaves, and the final line containing the proof node closest to the root.
* CompactRange proofs, with the first line containing the left-most subtree hash.
